In this video, you'll
learn more library
functions similar to
with that look like
built-in language constructs
but just take lambda,
lambda was a receiver
as an argument.
There are many similar to with
functions defined in
the standard library.
I'll try to show you
briefly when each one might
be used and why we do
have so many of them.
What is the difference?
We've already seen with,
it takes an expression
as an argument and
uses it as the receiver inside
of the following lambda.
Here we can access members of
window without
explicit specification.
We're just directly
window properties.
Run is very similar to
with but it is defined
as an extension,
which makes it possible to use
it with a null-able receiver.
If the receiver, window
in our case, can be null,
then you can't use with
because this will be
null-able inside the lambda,
then these can't be admitted,
you will need to explicitly
check whether it's not null.
Run is helpful for such a case
because you can use
it with safe access.
Run will be called only when
the receiver is not null.
But note that in many other cases
run and with are interchangeable.
You can use the whole expression
as the receiver,
here the run will
be called only when
windowById main exists
and is not null.
Apply is different because
it returns the
receiver as a result.
We haven't used it,
but actually with and
drawn functions return
the result of the lambda.
The last expression inside
the lambda will be the result
of the whole invocation.
Sometimes, however, it's
convenient to return.
the receiver as the result.
For instance, in
a chain of calls,
you can call other methods
afterward or again
like in this example,
simply assign the results
to a variable.
When you create
a window instance,
you might want to
modify some of
its properties right away.
Apply is really useful for that
because the result is
the modified main window.
Note that we assign the variable
here only the result
is non-null and
if it's null we stop
the current execution and
return from the outer function.
Also is similar to apply,
it returns the receiver as well.
However, there is
the difference that it takes
a regular lambda not
lambda with a receiver
as an argument.
Lambda with the receiver is
really useful when you can
admit this reference because
you only call it's members.
However, there are cases when
you pass the receiver
is an argument,
like here when we pass
a window as an argument to
the function showWindow.
In this case,
the also function is
better because it takes
a regular lambda as an argument.
Here, it inside also
refers to window.
You can introduce the window
name for it If you want.
Sometimes you can
explicitly prefer to change
the lambda parameter name when
you use also, that's possible.
This table shows you
the difference between
all these functions.
With goes in a cell
together with run.
With is only one
non-extension function here.
All other functions including
run are extensions.
The difference between
them is which functions
return the result
of the lambda and
which functions
return the receiver.
The functions in the first column
take lambda with the
receiver as an argument,
with run as apply.
The rest two take the regular
lambda as an argument.
Without looking back at
the first slide with
all the function decorations,
you may practice
your own understanding
and find the correspondence
between this function decorations
and their implementations.
Note that we consider only
extension functions now,
right afterward we'll
discuss the answer.
The table is very useful.
At first, let's focus on
the functions returning the
receiver as the result.
They should return
explicit to this because
this refers to the receiver
inside the lambda.
The other two functions return
the result of the lambda.
We now distinguish
at least pairs of functions,
after that we can go
on and focus on which
lambda do the functions
take as an argument.
Two functions take
lambda with receiver,
they expect a parameter of
extension function type.
This parameter of
extension function type
must be called as
an extension function.
If we call this block
as an extension,
then block corresponds to
lambda with a receiver.
The other two functions
take a regular lambda and
then call a variable of
a function type as
a regular function.
That gives us the result.
You now know what
lambda receiver is
and can you use
many helpful functions
defined in the standard library.
Next section we'll dive into
the topic of Kotlin types
and explain the correspondence
between Kotlin and Java types.